- [Presenter] There are several principles
that a successful continuous delivery approach
is built upon.
Let's explore them to learn how they influence the practices
teams use to deliver software.
The first principle requires that a repeatable process
has been engineered for how we develop, build
and release our software.
So each time we develop and release a new feature,
the same set of steps are repeated without any variation.
This establishes consistency within our release procedures
that allows the steps to be translated into code.
So repetitive tasks like builds, tests and deployments
are codified so they can be executed
by automated processes running on computers.
This takes the burden of executing them off of people,
but it doesn't mean the people will be replaced.
It just frees them up to focus on more valuable work.
That takes us to version control,
which is the single source of truth for project artifacts
like source code, scripts and configuration files.
Placing these artifacts in diversion control
allows the team and automation to collaborate better
because everything related to the project
is in one managed location that is accessible to everyone.
It's also the point where developers
commit many small changes,
and that event of committing triggers their delivery
through the automated pipeline.
Keeping changes small in size and numbers
does two important things.
First, releases become more frequent, stable
and less stressful
because we exercise the practice more often.
Second, risk actually decreases
because we're not releasing multiple large change sets
all at once.
This means there's a lot less
that can go wrong with a release.
If a problem does arise,
it's easier to restore the system
because we can easily identify the problem
amongst the smaller batch and resolve it.
This leads us to our final three principles,
which help us avoid those types of problems
in the first place.
To do this, we engineer quality into the delivery process
to verify each change that flows through it
is production-worthy.
This is achieved by shifting practices
like linting and automated testing
to the front of the process,
where we can identify and fix problems earlier.
So we'll no longer discover a bunch of issues
in the final days before release,
when it's too late to actually fix them.
Continuous delivery also focuses
on the quality of the team's delivery processes,
which are constantly re-engineered and improved upon.
If something does go wrong within the process,
the situation is evaluated,
and ideas from across the organization are collected
to introduce better practices
that fix the problem in the long term
and prevent it from ever happening again.
The release process is constantly evolving
to optimize its stability
and ultimately the quality of the software it delivers.
That doesn't happen in a vacuum.
It requires collaboration from everyone involved
with developing, testing and releasing the software.
So regardless of whether you work on a development, testing
or operations team, in continuous delivery,
you have a common goal to release higher quality software
faster and more reliably.